# SICP-register-machine
A translation into JavaScript of the register machine simulator presented in SICP chap 5.

In chapter 5 of the book Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs, a toy assembly language is developed to show how programs can be implemented at the primitive machine level. In section 5.2, a Scheme program is presented that takes as input code written in this toy assembly language and then simulates the behavior of a register machine running that same code. It "simulates" such a machine in the sense that it performs (at some level) the same steps that the machine would perform. This simulator, then, is in effect an interpreter for the toy assembly language, but a very particular kind of interpreter.

Anyhow, this register machine simulator program is a "translation" of SICP's Scheme program into JavaScript. The essentials of the program have all been left intact. Some parts were translated more or less literally, but other parts have been adapted to more idiomatic JS. For a trivial example, Scheme's (cadr s), ie (car (cdr s)), ie the first element of the list of all the elements of s but the first, would be literally translated as s.slice(1)[0]. However, the idiomatic way of putting this in JS (and most languages, in fact) would simply be s[1]. For a more substantial example, SICP implements object methods by a funny style where to call an object method, a string literal is passed as an argument to the object. Instances of this style of object have been converted to JS dot notation.
